Select the metadata elements you plan to capture and preserve for a new oral history project, or that you are already capturing for an existing project. This elements set, or list, is intended to contain all the possible types of information a given practitioner may want to collect, capture, or share about their oral histories. The list is organized by the following oral history lifecycle stages: Plan, Interview, Process, and Disseminate. We encourage you to move through this exercise quickly.  When you have made your selections, the list you download will separate the elements you have chosen from those you did not choose so you have them all for future reference.The downloaded list is where you can further refine and discuss with your team.

This elements set is not intended to be prescriptive, and practitioners do not need to use every element in the list. It does not conform to any one particular metadata standard or schema. The elements in this list could be captured, preserved, utilized, and adapted based on the particular needs, schemas, and systems in place for a given oral history project or institution, and the elements could be configured and maintained in various structures based on these needs.

Each element includes a description of the meaning of the element, potential uses, and any considerations practitioners might wish to note. In some cases examples or suggestions are provided. Please note these examples are not meant to be exhaustive or prescriptive, and you could include whatever information or format is appropriate for your needs and existing standards. The information captured within each field could utilize a customized controlled vocabulary or be retained in narrative form. Many elements could also be repeatable as needed.

Your final list of selected elements will include an empty column for noting where the oral history metadata is (or may be) stored. Completing the task of noting where various pieces of metadata are stored can be a helpful decision-making, organizational, and information-sharing exercise for a team working on an existing project.